you may or may not have heard of a place
called detroit michigan
from roughly the years 1992 to 2016
i spent my whole life in the detroit
area grew up in metro detroit
when i was younger i remember hearing a
lot on the news about this thing called
the economy
and i really wasn't educated about
what that meant when i heard that the
economy was
doing very poorly in michigan and that
car manufacturing was moving to other
places in the world
that was pretty much all i knew about
the economy and i
i didn't receive any formal education
about it i mostly just received
education in the home
hearing my father complain about the
terrible economy of detroit
and how much he wanted to leave and move
somewhere else in america where the
economy
was doubtless better i didn't have any
options
that i knew of in high school to study
economics
i didn't study economics in college i
remember my freshman year
there was a girl who came over to our
dorm room every weekend
she and my roommates would pre-game for
frat parties
and i would overhear them gussying up
and talking about their classes or
you know what guys that they're
interested in and
you know she would complain a lot about
the economics class that she was taking
i heard some other friends of mine some
other students that i had in
classes complain about this econ 101 at
university of michigan
which was a notoriously difficult weeder
course if people were planning on
going into business they would have to
take this class and they would have to
take some other really challenging
classes that
weeded out a lot of people i had the
impression that
this wasn't for me it kind of calls into
question the purpose of education
if you feel that you're at a school
where like you can't actually take a
class because it's going to be so
difficult
that you'll inevitably fail that you'll
inevitably not be able to pass the class
and get on academic probation and so on
like this
really is the fundamental problem with
the university system
if you want students to actually learn
shouldn't there be more emphasis on
retaking the class
not letting it destroy your entire
resume
your entire academic transcript if you
fail a class one time
so i avoided it thinking that this would
be terribly difficult for me
and i never really learned about
economics i was never like motivated by
wanting money and i kind of felt
ambivalent about it
and judgmental of people who were really
motivated by earning money
not necessarily an immoral thing not an
evil thing
but my impression of people who were
studying economics or really interested
in learning about the stock market i
would see this one kid in my philosophy
class
on the stock market stock exchange while
he was in class
supposedly listening to a philosophical
lecture wow like can you really not be
bothered to
listen to this one hour lecture can you
not for one hour be thinking about your
money
it really took me a long time to not see
economics in this negative framework
it actually was probably the results of
talking about economic
situations in history and politically
how they influence the world it's not
necessarily
that i'm reading books about economics
to earn money
i'm not reading these texts in order to
make a lot of money
buy a yacht be able to travel the world
um so yeah i was lucky enough to be in a
relationship with somebody who's got a
lot of economic knowledge
he's taught me a lot about economics
he's encouraged me to read some books
about
economics i encouraged you why did you
want to read them you tell them
well i don't want to be ignorant i don't
you know i i'm 28 years old
and if i don't know the first thing
about how
the american government makes money
shouldn't i know these things
at a certain age and actually some of it
too
is because i might be in a position in
the future
where i have to teach somebody who's
younger than me somebody might ask me a
question
my boyfriend has a daughter who's now
eight years old it's possible in eight
years she'll
ask me about economics she'll maybe be
deciding on what major she'll
want to go into in college and ask about
economics and if she asks me
the fundamentals like i want to be able
to answer every day
you can turn on the news and at the end
of the news report
they mention stocks they show numbers
they show charts and i think
a large part of the population doesn't
understand
what those charts are showing i think
people live in ignorance about
the subject of economics where does
the stock exchange come from why is it
that only wealthy people tend to
get involved in the stock market or why
is it
that when you work for a company at a
certain point you have a 401k
that money is being invested in a bunch
of different
stocks and bonds and you're told that
it's
a secure way to keep your money or to
you know when you retire that you will
have enough money
to take care of yourself to take care of
your children and grandchildren
you know people eventually they have to
go to
financial advisors and talk about their
money it's such a fundamental
factor in life the world really does
tend to revolve around money people live
with a kind of ambivalence about it
like i did where i'm aware that money is
so important and a lot of people's lives
are totally dictated by money
but you just don't want to base your
life on money right
rather than focusing on the emotional
side of it
how you feel about money how you feel
about earning money or saying you know i
i don't want to work my whole life and
just be a slave to
this capitalist society there is a lot
online that is
anti-work it seems to be that this is
the trend that human beings aren't
naturally inclined
to labor at all i want to know
enough about economics about earning
money about
how it is that you go to the grocery
store and you're able to pick up this
product that is from china
you know how how is this possible isn't
it something that's
a wonder of our modern day isn't it
something that
is worth analyzing and worth studying i
don't think it's possible for everybody
to
study every topic i don't think it's
possible for everybody
to care about aristotle or care about
reading thucydides
but for something that's every day
talked about on the news
constantly the economy the economic
situation you know
house prices are going up why inflation
is a problem why are you just going to
ignore those parts of the news or just
learn that these are these abstract
ideas and say like oh yeah there's a lot
of inflation right now so i can't buy a
house me and my husband we can't buy a
house
because inflation this kind of abstract
imaginary thing you can't really put a
finger on it like oh because of
this situation this past year the
economy is in
shambles i felt like i at 28 years old
i really should get to the fundamentals
i really should learn
the basics of economics so the last year
i read two books
a concise guide to macroeconomics and
the other one
is more specific it's called a bull in
china and that is about investing
in chinese companies these to me were
very good building blocks
i think i can continue to study this
area and
continue to repair the kind of
broken ideas that i had about economics
and about
money and labor without being stifled by
ideology or without being hateful of
earning money
or finding that it's the most important
thing in life there's an in-between
there's something to learn about the
economy
rather than just this idea of earning
money and making a living for yourself
how economics affects other aspects of
life on earth politically if the leader
of israel makes a statement it can
affect the stock market
why if there is a downturn in
the stock market it can affect the price
of oil
how much it costs to put gas in my car
will go up
and you know instead of just saying well
this is
this is just how it is you know i this
is just a factor of life and i'm just
going to live my life
feeling like i'm at the will of some
mysterious force around me that i can
understand why it is that the
oil prices have gone up why it costs
more to drive my car around or why it is
that
cars have become more expensive okay but
what about the hot dog theory
of ignorance i put this to you hot dogs
only taste good because people don't
know
what they're made of if you visualize
that the ears
and the lips of the cow are ground up in
this hot dog suddenly it tastes awful
what if people love chasing money what
if people
love the economy love economics because
they don't understand it's like the hot
dog it's a whole bunch of complicated
things bunched up
and they're totally ignorant and that
ignorance is what makes the world go
around
wouldn't you rather live in ignorance or
what what are the advantages
of studying economics because living
ignorant living in ignorance is working
out great
well i'm vegan so that's why i don't eat
hot dogs and
my life is probably more miserable for
that you know
i'm i'm not very fun at parties because
i don't drink alcohol because i know it
causes brain damage you know
like it's not gonna win you friends and
it does make life
kind of more difficult to really
examine why it is things are the way
they are getting angry
at this abstract idea of money
saying like why do i have to earn money
and
to me i think understanding changes the
way i feel and when i
when i understand things i i feel less
angry or like emotionally attached to it
it's not just an ideal or it's not an
abstract concept
like it's it's materials
that's why it's rewarding to me because
i feel like i can at least
form a kind of uh map like you know i
can brainstorm a map of why it is
that soy milk is so expensive this is a
frustrating thing for vegans like
vegan products are way more expensive
than non-vegan products but that doesn't
make sense logically like
like if you just think about it in
a non-economic non-economic terms you
think well isn't it way more
effort to raise a cow cut up the cow
package it into plastic wrap and then
you know deliver it to
people at the grocery store rather than
you know growing soybeans
and mushing them up into soy milk or
tofu you know
you'd think tofu should be way cheaper
than meat and a lot of the times i think
i have been really frustrated by this
but when i
study it when i learn about it i feel
less angry about it and
i'm at least able to like accept it
growing up in detroit
i feel like i would have really
benefited from understanding
some of these economic principles and it
would have made
some discussions with family members
with friends
a lot more rewarding if i would have had
some knowledge
about economic theory and had learned
these things in high school and college
or on my own
because for the most part high schools
don't even have an economics class
i got my undergraduate degree in english
a lot of the texts that we read
i think it's fair to say that nobody
needs to read
those books it's not fundamental to
life on earth many people will live
their lives never reading shakespeare
and that's okay i really don't think
that people
are missing out on something that
fundamentally affects them every day
if they don't read romeo and juliet but
i do think people are missing out if
they don't read
anything about economics or make an
effort to understand
economic principles unless you're a
farmer
studying meteorology will probably be a
waste of your time
and you can live in ignorance of how the
weather works
you can watch the news report on tv to
learn about what the weather is going to
be like today what the forecast is
but for the most part you don't need to
really understand why it is
it's raining today you can get through
your whole life not understanding
really how the weather works but when
you hear on the news about
the economy you really should know how
the economy works
at least make an effort to learn the
fundamentals about how the economy works
[Music]
you